Four EQ Bands
Each of the four EQ bands have similar controls. The Band Gain is
controlled by the top row of knobs, the Band Q- Factor is controlled by the
middle row and the Band Center Frequency is controlled by the bottom
row.
1 On Switches
Switch each EQ band and its accompanying components on and off. Use
this to solo, or listen to specific bands together.
2 Gain
Each band has a ±8dB gain control which operates in 0.5dB Steps from 0
to +-3dB and from +-3 to +-8dB in 1dB Steps.
3 Q Control
Q control ranging in four steps from 0.5 to 1.5. and can be switched to
shelf mode at right stop. Filters are Peak Filters except when in Shelf
position, then its a Low-Shelf for Low and Low-Mid Bands and High-Shelf
for High and High-Mid Bands.
4 Frequency
The frequency control for each band is stepped, with 16 different positions.
Low Band: 27 - 470 Hz
Low Mid Band: 100Hz - 1.8kHz
High Mid Band: 560Hz - 10kHz
High Band: 1.5 - 27 kHz
2
4
1
3
5
SOMA EQ
Plugin Manual
1 EQ On
Switches the Global Channel bands and its accompanying components
on or off.
2 Mute
Mutes the channel.
3 Trim
Selects a Trim Gain for the Channel. This control is not symmetrical.
It runs from 0 to +3dB dB in 0.25dB steps and 0 to -8 dB.
4 HP Filter Slope
HP and LP filter slopes are gentle, with round corner, and reach 12dB/oct slope.
HP filter can be switched for elliptic filter, which has 6dB/oct slope.
5 HP (High Pass Filter)
Switch between the following ranges: off/25/33/50 Hz at 12dB/oct and
140 / 200 / 280 Hz at 6dB/oct.
Tip: An „elliptic equalizer“ is used during vinyl mastering to prevent
playback skipping on music having wide stereo bass. The bass-to-mono
elliptic EQ gets its name from the width of ellipses in the recorded groove
or Lissajous patterns on an oscilloscope.
3
4 5
1
2
6
SOMA EQ
Plugin Manual
1 LP (Low Pass Filter)
Switch between the following ranges: off/24/20/17 kHz.
2 Auto Listen
When Auto Listen is engaged: As long as the frequency- or q-control of a
specific eq-band is clicked, everything outside of the filter‘s bandwidth is
muted. This let‘s you listen to the effect of a single eq-band depending on
It‘s frequency and q. While listening, The gain is normalized.
Please check page 13 Modifier Keys.
3 M/S
Engages Mid/Side processing. When this is set to On, the Left Channel
processes the Mid (Sum) of both channels and the Right Channel processes
the Side (difference) of both channels.
4 Parameter Link
This enables or disables linking of parameters for Dual Mono and Stereo
operations. When both parameters have different values and link is
engaged, both parameter values remain unless one of them is touched
and any control offsets between channels are lost.
5 Power
Switches the Plugin On & Off. The indicator LED will light when the Soma
is active. This parameter is linked to the BYPASS button in the Plugin
Alliance Toolbar.
1 4
2
3
5
7
SOMA EQ
Plugin Manual
BX Module
TMT Inside
The SOMA EQ offers 20 different eq channels, made possible by TMT.
TMT is Brainworx‘s (TMT, US Patent No. 10,725,727) “Tolerance Modeling
Technology”, originally found in the bx_console line of plugins. It takes the
real-world tolerances of audio components found in audio circuits into
account, and offers various channels of analog audio which have realistic
variances in frequency response, time constants in dynamic sections, etc.
The result is digital audio that sounds as analog as possible, whereas
even the L/R channels of a stereo instance will react slightly different.
For more information please check www.brainworx.audio
1 Stereo Mode
Toggles between using the same TMT channel for both units (Digital) and
using two adjacent TMT channels (Analog).
2 Channels
TMT, switches between 20 different channels. In a Stereo instance, two
adjacent channel numbers will be displayed. Each channel has its own,
different character!
3
2
8
SOMA EQ
Plugin Manual
1 Random Channel
Whenever you instantiate a SOMA EQ plugin on a channel, it will start
with the Default setup, which is Channel 1 in a flat setting. You can now
randomize a channel by clicking the Random Channel button. Only the
plugin instance you click on will switch to any unused channel number in
that session randomly. The plugin will remember which channel numbers
are already used in a session and activate an unused channel number,
unless you engage more than 20 channels. At that point the plugin
obviously would have to use a channel number that has already been
used.
2 Mono Maker
This tool is a critical component to several Brainworx processors, and it is
an invaluable tool when mastering or tightening up a mix. Sweepable from
20 Hz to 2 kHz, this parameter folds the processed sound to mono at and
below the frequency set. The most common setting is between 100-200
Hz, below which bass frequencies reside, where common practice deems
that most sound should be mono. Other uses include folding an entire mix
in order to check mono compatibility and avoid phase incoherency. It can
be bypassed at the left stop position.
1 2
9
SOMA EQ
Plugin Manual
1 Stereo Width
Make your mix wider than it originally was by increasing the Stereo Width
without losing the center of your recordings! You will not lose bass drum
power or vocals by making your mix wider this way... and it will not sound
different played back in mono at all. If you notice your Correlation Meter
(you can find a correlation meter in the bx_meter plugin) showing less
than 90°, dial up the Mono Maker a bit to tighten up the low-end until
acceptable levels are shown.
2 Input Gain
The Input Gain control sets the level at the input of the plugin. The range
is from -8 dB to +8 dB.
3 Headroom
It Adjusts the internal operating level so that the Plugin produces more
or less harmonics / coloration. Rotating the control clockwise will allow
signals at the input to be pushed higher before they saturate, this will
result in less coloration overall. By rotating counter-clockwise headroom
is decreased resulting in a greater amount of saturation and more colour
being added to the signal.
4 Out Gain
Adjusts the Output Level of the plugin. The range is from -8 dB to +8 dB.
5 Input and Output Meter
The input meter shows signal level before all processing and the output
meter the level after all processing. All meters show levels in dBFS.